the dream is probably that you don't
want to be doing any manual data writing
into your CRM right and I I think where
AI is good is doing research so account
research is really good I think scoring
is going to be really good in a with
AI llms are both good at generation
generating things LMS are also good at
search and it's a different type of
search right it's almost like a
contextual search so you can use it for
scoring so it's a new way of saying okay
are these things similar but it I don't
think it's fully autonomous and that's
where the promise of AI sdrs is you just
say here are a list of my customers or
here's my CRM connect to my CRM see who
my customers are and go find me more
like them and the number of tasks that
you or the the decisions that you need
to make to do that are quite the the the
space of possibilities is quite large
and an llm can create a plan for that
and execute it saster fans welcome back
to a new episode of cro
confidential I'm your host Sam blonde we
are back with a new episode and we are
coming back with a bang both the guest
that we have today and the topic that we
have today I am just thrilled to present
and have been excited for this episode
for some time now now so with that let's
start with the guest we have Kareem Amin
from clay he is the CEO uh Kareem prior
to becoming the CEO and founding clay
he's a second time founder founded frame
that was acquired by saale through back
in 2012 since then creams V BP of
product at Wall Street Journal and now
he is CEO and co-founder at clay I was
introduced to Kareem I think it's
probably been a couple years now through
Mike Vernal who is a partner at seoa and
Mike said something like you've got to
meet this founder he's really on to
something in the revenue systems
category and this was probably back at
the time where clay was just in its very
early beginnings and so kudos deike for
being on to something there
congratulations on all the success that
you've realized since and welcome to the
pod K thanks Sam great to be here
awesome with that as we do with most
guests for anyone who doesn't know let's
start with what is clay so Clay is the
the way we think about it the the
mission for us is really how do we turn
any idea for growth into reality really
quickly and we tend to think of that as
a creative approach to go to
market so the same way that you might
think of Photoshop or figma to designers
we are to growth marketing and revops
teams and practically speaking what we
do is initially start out by pulling
data from every data provider in the
world so we aggregate all of these so
you can have the best data about
companies and people and then use that
to narrow down a hypothesis about who
your Target customer is and what you
should say to them and we run that for
you it's awesome you've realized a ton
of success and we're going to talk about
that and how you've realized that a
little bit later in the show one one
thing that I'm curious on before we jump
into the topics that we've
outlined how did you identify this
problem that you are going after and
then design the solution that you have
come up with around it I look at your
background you co-founded a company that
I don't believe was in this space so
your second time founder and that of
course is is great and applicable
experience but it's not domain specific
and then product leader at Wall Street
Journal like kind of the same idea there
it's not necessarily in this category so
I'd love to learn what was the approach
that you went through how did you like
figure out this opportunity exists and
then solve it in such a successful way
the ambition that my co-founder and I uh
had when we started the company was how
do we give the power of programming to
an order of magnitude more people mainly
how do we give you access to telling
machines what to do so that you can get
some of the value that machines are
providing in the 21st century that's
like this very
abstract intention and then from there
we did this analysis where we started
looking at like different forms that you
can bring programming to people I think
my co-founder in particular actually
started prospecting to find customers
and realized very quickly that it's a
very ad hoc
and difficult process because the data
isn't always accurate right if the data
was accurate then you could just look at
one database use that and target people
but actually the data wasn't always
accurate was very varied depending on
who you're looking to Target and also
changed all the time and we realized
that we could use our own product to do
that pretty early on and then we it took
us some time to consolidate around that
vision and to narrow
down giving the power of programming to
go to market people that intention
became clearer and then committing to
that intention and reframing the mission
to being how do we help businesses grow
by by applying different kind of growth
campaigns that was the rest of the
journey and I think for those listening
who uh aren't familiar with the clay
story is like fast forwarding from those
early Beginnings think K and Clay
announced raising 50 plus million dollar
at a $500 million valuation from many of
the best investors in the world like
Sequoia and maritech and congrats on
realizing that success and I know you
probably think of it think about it as
we're still in the early endings of this
business okay two topics that I and we
want to jump into today the first one is
one that we've never touched on on this
show and I think it's uh time to so that
one is uh Revenue systems and I can't
think of anyone better to have on the
show to speak to us about the evolution
of Revenue systems um things that exist
today with the incorporation of AI and
so much focus on increased
productivity like where we are today how
folks should be leveraging these
different systems and where you see the
future going so I think that'll be a
really interesting conversation and then
if there is time would love to learn how
clay has approached go to market and
realized the type of success that you
have in such a short amount of time um
with that let's kick off with the first
topic and maybe I will set the stage for
something that I'm intimately familiar
with and then I would love to learn
along with the audience like where
things are today
because you're GNA have a much better
pulse on that than I will and I I
mentioned forward looking my experience
with systems is something like in
2007 or eight when I first joined a
company as an SDR I used
Salesforce and over time we like boled
on different systems depending on the
needs of the business and what uh
existed in the marketplace and so one of
the first ones was something like Zoom
info where now we were able to get
people's contact information I think it
was called discover org back in the day
and so then now I could import some
email addresses into Salesforce from
discover org and then the next Evolution
was like maybe Outreach came out and I
was able to like email a bunch of these
people instead of one at a time and then
maybe gong came out and I was able to
start instead of joining oneoff calls
with all of the sales reps on my team I
was able to record the calls and maybe
listen to them at 10 o'clock at night
when I didn't have to join the call
live and we just continued down this
path of bolting on more and more
Point Solutions into the Hub of
Salesforce and then the last thing that
I would say is my experience with these
systems is I would describe them as like
reactive data repositories where when
you buy Salesforce or when you buy
goonger when you buy Outreach it it
really requires the user to input data
and instruct the system what to do and
much of the like strategy and opinions
that are then ingrained in one set of
systems or driven by the humans that are
uh using those systems I think we're
starting to see that
change and I I would love to learn from
you a couple things one is like where
are we today in the existing set of
systems how have those changed over the
last couple of years and where the topic
of the day is is Ai and probably will be
for some time like where is AI good and
effective and where is it
still maybe a bit of a pipe dream or not
quite there yet yeah totally I think I
think that's a great summary and and
makes a lot of sense to me I think maybe
the lay of the land is really you can
either Empower sdrs with the tools that
you were talking about then give more
and more tools to become more and more
productive you could either try to
automate all of that
away or you could take a bunch of these
tasks to be done and move them on to
someone else centralize them and allow
someone to be able to automate the
pieces that are automatable right um
hopefully that kind of makes sense and
that'll map out actually to the
different companies in the market
there's companies who are either
building
AI co-pilots or trying to build tools to
make sdrs more productive and I think
that that there's a market for that and
then there's tools that are coming out
saying let's just be an AI SDR and then
there are tools like clay that are
saying we're going to use both data
enrichment and AI to centralize the
power to someone else maybe like a REV
Ops person or go to market Ops person
who will be able to automate these tasks
sdrs will still be there but they'll do
they'll be doing more follow-ups more
calls things that are not automatable
yet and I think that also maps to what
you talking about as what is AI doing
really right now and whereas there still
maybe promise but not practical reality
the application practical reality I
think really the dream is probably that
you don't want to be doing any
manual data writing into your CRM
right
and I I think where AI is good is doing
research so account research is really
good I think scoring is going to be
really good in a with
AI llms are both good at generation
generating things so like generating
summaries of you want to know go to this
website figure out what this company
does and what Market is it in right
right or tell me a couple of the
customers that this company has through
ingesting that data and figuring it out
it's also LMS are also good at
search and it's a different type of
search right it's a con it's almost like
a contextual search so you can use it
for scoring so it's a new way of saying
okay are these things
similar which is why I think it'll will
be used in scoring so those are things
that it's good at it's also good at
generating Snippets short Snippets of
data that are
relevant for Comm communicating whether
it's via email or
elsewhere and I think those three things
it's really good at I think the things
where it's still
aspirational
is
the dream around like an auto GP Auto
GPT so a mission you give it a mission
and uh llms are really good at
generating a plan and then try and
execute that plan uh but it I don't
think it's fully autonomous and that's
where the promise of AIS SDR is is um
you just say here are a list of my
customers or here's my CRM connect to my
CRM see who my customers are and go find
me more like them and the number of
tasks that you or the the decisions that
you need to make to do that are
quite the the the space of possibilities
is quite large and an llm can create a
plan for that and execute it I think the
problem is when that plan gets
commoditized pretty quickly when that
plan doesn't go as planned how do you
get the feedback back
in and how do you make it improve over
time in a way that doesn't lead to
something that will be dismissed by a
human so even if it does it really well
it's still has to pattern break in some
way to get your attention I do think our
brains are really good
at realizing that this is being able to
sort things that are crap from
that and unless AIS AI sdrs are able to
do that I think it might be a temporary
dead end for
now until we get an order or two of
magnitude of improvements um in llms
which could happen very quickly
I love
this let's let me try and recap and then
go from
there I believe what I heard from you to
just boil it down to a few very specific
things that and maybe the right framing
for this is something like you started
clay let's call it two years ago is that
on right oh it was a while longer than
that okay yeah so let's say
a few years
ago like the the way that systems would
be leveraged in technology companies and
what is different today from the way
that systems um in like a perfect world
uh of fully optimizing for the best
technology that's
available what is different today from
what people were doing let's call it
three years ago before effectively the
introduction of AI
um what what I heard from you is a few
different things one is account scoring
and determining who to Target llms would
be are really effective at that another
thing that I heard from you is
firmographic information so like
capturing information about the
companies and people that you are
targeting llms and AI I are are are very
good at that and you should be doing
that today the third thing that I heard
from you
is you you shouldn't be manually
inputting data into Salesforce and so
llms are good at probably taking my
interpretation of what you said is
something like
transcribing calls that have been
recorded and any email communication
that you had with potential customers
and taking that information and updating
CRM the llms are going to be better than
like the average human at that that
specific activity so I'll pause there
does that sound right is like just
repeating what I heard and where
technology today should be leveraged
yeah exactly so it's in summarizing the
data from calls and emails it's the kind
of getting new information through the
website scraping
and and then it's
also using AI to score based similarity
the only thing I think is missing is
also generating like value props that
you can then based on that account
research and the summarized kind of
email and phone conversation so that you
can send that message makes sense and
then Kareem I heard one thing from you
on what llms or just systems more
broadly aren't as good at today and I'll
try and repeat that and then I'll I'll
try and come up with one of my own as
well and then the thing that I heard
from you is is I will summarize it by
just saying like replacing sdrs entirely
which is deploy and a um SDR bot go
figure out who to reach out to what
message to send to them respond to their
objections schedule a meeting at the
time that they want to schedule it and
we're not yet there where humans can be
entirely replaced from that process and
so before I move on to the one that I
pressure test is a different one does
that sound right yeah that sounds right
and I don't think that we're super far
away from that but I think there are
some hurdles that make it so that if you
fully rely on that you might not be
getting the results that you want
because any kind of breakdown in any of
those steps is a disaster right yes and
I think we've all received emails that I
would describe or I certainly have that
I would describe as
AI hallucinations that yeah I I get an
email it's so obvious that a human
didn't write this email and it doesn't
make any
sense and so then uh that would be an
example of a breakage in that process
yep and then the one that I would add
that I haven't yet seen a solution for
it or or an effective one is I don't
think that
AI can yet replace like the creativity
that I see in oneoff campaigns and I
think
about some of the most effective
campaigns that I
have produced myself or observed
different companies
making these are like humans coming up
with something that's very on brand for
their product and company that has
either never been done before or like
never been done to the way that they are
executing it and I I've talked about a
lot of these examples on this show in
the past but I I think it's it's hard to
replace the sort of
creativity of the oneoff campaigns to
really stand out through these systems
today totally agree perfect so we've
talked about like the environment that
exists today and hopefully folks are
coming away with uh ideas that maybe you
aren't leveraging this technology for
some of the specific things that Kareem
highlighted Maybe look into doing where
are we going we talked about this even
if it was just two years ago I think the
list of four that we came up with really
weren't possible um even just two years
ago if we think 12 and 24 months into
the
future what's
next I think the I think in the
immediate future there are lots
of so the things that I mentioned are
still not being fully
applied across they're they're being
applied in like bits and pieces
essentially and not coordinated with
each other so maybe there is an AI
scoring tool and account research but
how's that connected to the messaging so
I think there's going to be a way to put
all of this together to really do a full
end to end go to market campaign that
basically starts off from let's ingest
all of your CRM data and maybe all of
your marketing material and your website
let's look at all of that information
identify using scoring your best
customers today what about them makes
them a a great customer what predicts it
let's go out and find more customers
like that let's prepare a bunch of
different campaigns based on your value
props and then let's you adjust that and
get creative with that like preparation
in hand and see hey did your campaign
work or not so we're going to be more
data driven about the results of these
go to market campaigns and also use AI
to generate them and then tweak them
with our creative ideas so I think the
endtoend aspect is what we're going to
see of more in the next 12 months um in
the next 24 months I'm staying
open-minded awesome and then how do you
see AI or the systems that that AI is
Incorporated in influencing the org
design or like Team Construction that
exists specifically within tech
companies and I think maybe a couple
different directions to take this is
something like do functions continue to
exist can we automate away entirely
certain
functions does it influence where
certain functions report does it
influence the size of these different
teams just curious if you have a
perspective on that
yeah I I think that
the things that we're seeing and that we
feel that this is for sure kind of to be
taken with a grain of salt because it's
also very aligned with uh what we
believe about the market but I think
it's that sales marketing customer
success are becoming goto market and
you're thinking more holistically about
the different sales marketing and
success basically align with the
different stages that a prospective
customer can be in right it's almost
like uh Prospect lead user and then
customer and I think we're seeing the
that becoming there's goto Market teams
that need to do like the creative
thinking the planning the human elements
and then there's a GTM Ops team that
uses tools and AI to facil facilitate
kind of the work of the GTM team and
that people are thinking about and why
would this not have been happening
before it was but the difference is that
now with the ability to work with more
information at a time at at one time
right through AI where you're like okay
let's take our value prop and then
create materials for sales and for
marketing and for customer success and
it has a cohesive message
I think we're seeing the ability to
consolidate those teams so that they are
actually thinking about the customer
journey together and they're not like
these siloed teams and then there's an
overarching team that enables them that
makes sense I will and unlike you I keep
an open mind on all of this stuff
because the reality is I don't totally
know and here here's maybe the trend
that I'm seeing and then I'll contradict
that with some pattern Ming to
history the trend that I expect to see
is just compression of Team sizes and I
think we're already seeing this on the
engineering side where engineering teams
are compressing or at least can
accomplish so much more than they
historically have been able to just in
terms of producing products at at a
faster rate and so then if we apply the
same mindset to go to market I I I think
we will not need this sort of army of
sdrs let's say to accomplish the same
amount of activity pipeline generation
however we want to frame it then we have
needed historically speaking now I think
the counter to that is I would have said
the same thing we talked about
previously earlier on the show like
Outreach and I was an SDR and it took me
so long to like manually click on
somebody's email address like copy and
paste make sure like the formatting is
correct and whatever else I would need
to do sometimes I would tap marketing's
shoulder and say can we do a blast
through maretto or whatever but like you
would think that Outreach or or email
sequencing tool like that would have
made an individual SDR 5 to 10x more
effective especially if they're heavily
reliant on outbound email and I think we
actually saw the op
opposite the size of SDR teams in 2020
many years after these products were
introduced was significantly greater
than the sort of like size or investment
made in SDR in 2012 when they uh first
came to Market something like that
totally companies are not trying to be
efficient companies are trying to
grow and so if I give you a way to grow
faster then you're just going to say if
we had more more people and this thing
is more efficient then we grow even
faster and so I'm going to try to add
more people if possible I think that
makes sense with Outreach right if one
person could send to 10 and now you can
say one person can send to 100 now I'm
going to just hire 10 people to send to
okay I think really good segue
especially as we've talked about like
how systems will evolve people within
businesses and so many of these tactics
let's talk about clay
specifically you you have taken the
market by storm where I think when you
and I were first connected most people
hadn't heard of play like I hadn't heard
of play when Mike introduced us and
today many go to market organizations
I'm sure there's still some opportunity
but so many are currently using clay and
I think you have found a spot on the
like Revenue stack list of Cutting Edge
companies so I want to talk about how
you have achieved that maybe as a
starting point where are you today what
do go to market at clay look like well
we're we're still pretty small so we
probably have eight people on the GTM
engineer team maybe two people on the
Ops okay the company is really 55 people
and the reason that I started there is
something like I imagine you are
leveraging the systems and this
technology as effectively as any company
could be just given what you do as a
business and so curious how that sort of
manifests in Effectiveness productivity
efficiency on a correct basis I would
imagine that if we map where you are in
terms of growth and ARR that most
companies that are a similar stage have
more people and so then I'm curious do
you
attribute assuming you you agree do do
you attribute that two better leveraging
systems than
counterparts I I I I I do agree and I I
think we're quite a bit smaller than
other companies that are at the same
kind of Revenue
metrics and I do think it is I think
it's to to be completely honest I think
it's both due to the systems that we set
up and due to the profile of people that
were hiring so we've been hiring people
into some of these roles that sometimes
have CS degrees but want to be on the
sales side thing or are technical in
some way or are open to learning how to
do this quickly so just to give you an
example our interview for this role is
do something in clay and surprise us and
then just explain what you did so the
goal here is can you figure out how to
use a tool that has an infinite ceiling
can you do something creative that would
get us to be excited and then can you
present it in a way that makes sense um
so it's a very simple prompt but
actually tests a bunch of things and so
we're hiring for a different skill set
than I think many organizations in this
role and then we're supplementing it
with systems but the people also
understand the value of the systems
we're not like layering it onto them it
makes a lot of sense let's talk about
some of the
tactics and maybe we started with early
days how did you acquire your initial
customer so I I think the
initial it's a super tricky question we
realize pretty quickly that there's a
lot of agencies trying to help people do
prospecting and agencies have an acute
pain because they're working across many
different customers at the same time
they're basically at the edge of this
market in terms of sophistication and in
terms of creativity because their job is
also prospecting and finding customers
so it's meta they understand the problem
because they're literally doing it as
well they're trying to grow their own
business and that they became a very
active users and we focused on them in
order to actually improve the product as
quickly as possible because they were
giving tons of feedback using the
product and through that we learned
what's working and what isn't and
a lot of the people from agencies then
get hired into to run their Ops like
their go to market Ops or rev Ops teams
and they bring us with them so that was
one way of seeding it into the market as
well as they become kind of solutions
experts for us and they also create
content to help their own business
really interesting one thing that you
mentioned that's really interesting that
I have talked less about or maybe not at
all is I think you found a pocket of
customers this can be a segment but I
think it's going to be at least in this
example even more exclusive or smaller
than like a segment of customers you
found like a customer type it was
receiving I don't know it's
exponentially more value but like more
value than the average customer or user
and you went really deep in the
like agency profiles um and
so that that addressable Market in
absolute terms is probably limited like
how many demand gen agencies are there
but you had zero of them when you
started and so even if the number is
let's just call it several hundred or
something that you can go after you can
very quickly grow by reaching out to
this specific type of customer that
realizes and outsize benefit from your
product and I really like that uh now
it's not universally applicable but it
it sounds like it it uh was really
effective in your case right I I think
though what's universally applicable is
find a customer segment that allows you
to get momentum and by momentum I don't
mean just Revenue the type of usage that
you're looking for that allows you to
improve your product faster and faster
and that has a is a subset of a larger
type of users that is
similar but maybe you can reach out to
either when the product improves or
because they hear about you because of
this initial smaller segment so you
identified this corner of the market
that is demion agencies uh you want to
attack
it where did you invest and I think
both with the acquisition of agencies
and then um expanding outside of
agencies are you targeting customers
through outbound are you trying to
leverage exist those existing agencies
and asking them for referrals what was
most effective for you I think it's all
of the above but what we tried to do is
to give room for these agencies to
create content about how they did what
they're doing and that both helps them
get more customers because it shows how
creative and smart they are and at the
same time showcases our product and
gives us broader reach once we have
broader reach we get more inbound once
we get more inbound we can then help
those people use the product use their
feedback to improve it and if and also
out of
the best kind of users we enable them to
become experts in our experts list and
then if somebody needs them for some
kind of creative
campaign they can hire them through clay
and just
reinforcing maybe more explicitly one
thing that is related to what you're
saying and then evolving that into a
question when I think of clay one of the
one of the first sort of brand
Association things that comes to mind
for me is Happy
customers and are you deliberate in any
way about taking advantage of that and
have and generating new customers from
your happy customers are there
incentives in place yeah totally I I
think we're very deliberate about it we
have the usual things that you would
expect we have uh referral programs we
have affiliate
programs and I
think that's one way to think about it
very
tactically is but I really think the
harder part is how do you get the happy
customers right because once you get the
happy customers there are kind of these
flywheels of incentivizing them to bring
on more people but actually people just
do that on their own anyway whether or
not you incentivize them you that's just
you can accelerate or not and we've done
a lot of things so we invest heavily in
our
brand we have for all of our creators we
call them creators and experts creators
are people
who prod you know they when they
generate content they have affiliate
links and it's people who are doing
something like really great with the
product we send them a little clay
figurine of
themselves we custom
make
from a clay artist and I give that as an
example of we are it's both to show that
this is a creative
tool and that we care in this way it's
also just fun and the product is a fun
product Like Our intention is as you're
using clay that you're actually enjoying
the
process and discovering new features and
becoming more it it's the end of the day
when you if you start using figma or
photoshop and you don't know how to
design you're not going to create
anything good but you as you use these
tools you accumulate like a skill which
is design and in clay you get the skill
of how to grow something
and that's actually our goal our goal is
to help you grow as a person and help
your business grow not for you to just
use clay I love the example and I can I
can just imagine getting that myself and
thinking it was cool and that's one of
the tests that I use for should we do
this or not would on the receiving end
of this clay figurine that was is like a
character of me be like oh that's like
unique that's like cool and
I I I think and we will wrap in the
interest of time but I think a really
positive note to end on one thing that
we did at brex that maybe folks that are
listening Can Come Away with some ideas
on this I think the one that you're
doing is probably even more creative and
effective whenever one of our customers
would fund raise and announce a new
fundrais and brex had a really high
market share of tech backed
startups we would at our All Hands
meeting we would pass around a note that
every person in the company would sign
and we were like 100 employees and so we
would send congratulations notes to our
customers for each of their fundraise
events that everyone in the company had
signed that just stood out it was like a
a cool thing to do that probably they
weren't getting from any of their other
partners and and it's personal like
handwritten signatures different pins
and fonts and so I think it's thoughtful
and so then for folks that are listening
like maybe do something on brand that is
analogous to the examples that Kareem
and I provided can't think of a higher
note to end on and Kareem just thank you
so much for your time I learned so much
and it's just very interesting so
congrats on all the success thank you
for being here thank you really
appreciate it